The Joe Rogan experience,
it seems like that's one of those things that once you get through,
and once you get through buds and once you get through hell week,
and once you get through all the difficult physical tasks and you actually
become a seal,
how many people maintain that sort of Goins Jocko
level of discipline and keep training constantly.
And how many people do the bare minimum?
It's hard to say. I, um, there are people who slip.
What are the requirements once you, once you've gone through.
All that. There's very few. And I can only speak from when I was in,
in 2013, the, I left the last day of June to 2013.
So if it has changed since then, um, I don't know anything about it. It,
but you know, the Navy, obviously it's, you're a Navy seal.
So you're governed by the United States Navy.
They make you do a P R T a physical readiness test, which is running pull ups,
pushups, sit ups, and a swim,
I think because we're seals and, um,
your wife could meet the standards.
My 11 year old daughter could probably meet that.
They're not crazy is what I'm saying. Mm-hmm <affirmative>. So the bar,
if you trip over the bar at that point, like you, you, you know,
your hamstrings don't work or it just, you suck. Um, and,
but there are varying levels.
There are people who are very like the individuals that you're talking about.
And then there are others that will let it slip and they slip a percentage point
over over time. Um, there's some, you know,
obese, disgustingly, overweight seals, not many, um,
and everything in between.
So it'd be hard to be for me to give you like exact numbers on that.
I would say more guys trend towards the Jocko Goins realm,
um, because it's a self critiquing community. In most ways,
it's like working inside of a Parran tank and if there's a drop of blood and
they're just like, yes, I'll eat you now.
We're very hard on each other for sure. Now.
How much, how many of them are involved in martial arts?
Uh, again, hard to say,
because I know it has drastically changed since I was in the amount of,
so I was telling before I sat down with Henry, uh, Gracie yesterday,
and we were just talking about a lot about his interaction with law enforcement
and how they got started. And it was with the Rodney king rides. Actually,
I didn't know that,
but that's when they started interfacing with law enforcement. Really? Yeah. Uh,
he had his, uh, dad, uh, um,
the generation before they started sitting on a panel, you know, talking about,
uh, I think essentially combatives with the, you know,
hand on hand type stuff with the LAPD, but that's where it started.
And it's grown since then when I went through, um,
I don't remember much discussion of martial arts at all.
There was prisoner handling or, you know,
detaining people and cuffing them determinating point would be to get their
hands behind their back and flex cuff them. We didn't use metal handcuffs.
We would use tie ties, you know, just cuz they're, you can put a lot,
you can slide 'em in your gear and just easily cinch on them. But, uh,
I think that it has drastically changed since I have been in it.
And I think a lot of that though is driven by individuals. I mean,
I'm sure you see it. Uh, I mean I'm,
I feel so stupid being late to the game to jujitsu. Um,
and I know that it is definitely,
I don't wanna say invading all of those communities,
but might be a good term infecting. It's just, it's,
there's a ground swell from guys who are learning on their own.
So it's increasing, but it was not prevalent when I was in,
unless you were an individual practitioner doing it on your own or had a buddy
that would do it with you.
Really. That's interesting. I would've assumed that it would've been, uh,
a core part of training,
like from the beginning to build character and to understand what happens if you
do lose your gun or if you do are in a situation where you don't have a weapon.
Well,
there's not a lot of situations in real life that you can point back to from my
community where that has happened. And quite frankly,
ego gets into the way and you'll hear guys say things like, well,
why do I need to, uh, do bro, I don't need to go hands on with anybody.
This is all I got right here. Right? And that's purely just ego.
And what ends up happening is, is,
and I was talking with Heather about this yesterday and I have a much better
understanding of it. Now you can elicit actions from people.
If you don't know what you're doing,
if you do have to go hands on and you're trying to detain somebody,
but you're asking about how much I weighed, right? How much gear I had. So I'm,
I usually would float somewhere between 2 0 5 to two 15 when I was in.
So add 80 to 90 pounds on top of that. And now I'm kneeling on your back, right?
And, but I don't understand weight distribution. I don't understand leverage.
I don't understand the way that the joints move that well.
And you're trying to comply.
I'm applying so much weight to you that it's forcing you towards a fight or
flight situation. And you can, you can
increase the deadly deadness of these situations
unintentionally and get yourself into a position where you might have to take
somebody's life, but they didn't deserve it.
It was actually your fault because you drove them to that point because you were
not Judi judiciously, applying the pressure that you needed to. Well.
You see that with police,
when you watch videos of cops trying to detain suspects,
and then they lose controlled situation.
And it's purely because they don't have an understanding of how to control a.
Person. They run out of tools. I have a ton of empathy for law enforcement.
If you're out on this streets and you have verbal commands,
then a taser and maybe a pepper sprays in there somewhere.
I don't even know if they still use that.
But then your next resource is a gun and you rapidly go through all those
options.
I understand how those situations occur and I'm not trying to justify them in
any way whatsoever.
But I understand what happens when you reach the limits of your tools.
And you're left with what you think is a threatening situation.
Henry has some great videos of breaking down. What goes wrong with, uh, police,
when they're trying to detain someone, I mean,
it's oftentimes two and three on one and they wind up getting killed.
There's there's videos of guys having a suspect on the ground and a suspect
who's not trained in martial arts. Yeah.
But unfortunately the cops aren't either and they're doing these stupid things
and hitting this person and trying to control 'em. And then the guy gets out,
gets to his car, pulls out a gun and kills them.
And I I've watched a video like that.
Recently. So the guy who got me into jujitsu was a sheriff. And, uh,
I actually just, the only reason I started is because I wanted him to shut up.
I had known him for like a year and he was like, and for me,
it's like the harder you push that at me. I'm like, I'm not doing it ever.
I don't care. Oh, you like carrot cake. I'm never having a piece of carrot cake.
I will not have a piece. So we are at my house,
drunk downstair is at the bar. And he was like, you know,
we were standing there drinking.
He tried to put me like a standing head and arm trying. He's like,
this is how I would choke. He was like, if you start right now,
you'll never tap me. He was a four strip white belt at the time.
Got his blue belt shortly after. Oh, that's hilarious.
If you start right now, you'll never tap me. So.
He claims he didn't say this, oh, that's that funny. He said it.
So I went to a class like the next day and, uh, and fell in love with it.
And he got pulled into and started jujitsu because a buddy of his got into
near life or death fight where I live up in Kalispell.
Sheriff's department doesn't have that many people on shift and a response time
of 20 to 30 minutes is possible. For sure.
So this guy goes out and he's in the fight for his life in like two feet of snow
in the wintertime. Oh Jesus.
And I think one of the first things that happened was his radio got ripped off.
That's a problem, right? If you need to call for backup. Yeah.
But fortunately they had procedures.
Like I guess if you check in and then for a certain period of time,
like if you don't people start moving their car in the right direction,
start coming to you. If you don't check in, in a longer period of time,
you know, the lights and sirens come on. So other people came, he was okay.
And he just got his brown belt, not too long. He's a Savage. What.
So what happened to.
Him? The, obviously I wasn't there, but, um, it was,
he pulled somebody over for a particular reason. I don't know what it was.
And this is an interesting thing too,
that I've come to understand better developing friendships with law enforcement.
You know, they, they come up to a car and they're just,
they're doing a stop and it's another touch point for their day.
But somebody in a car might be in the back of their mind thinking, oh my God,
like I have a misdemeanor or a felony.
I might be going to prison for the rest of my life.
So two very different head spaces as they converge. Uh, in this instance,
I believe there's a pistol that was in between the driver's seat,
a little center console. The individual went for it.
It somehow they came out of the car and it just became a scuffle at that point.
And they fought until other cops arrived and basically dog piled on the person
and ended it. And it was over,
I believe they were at that for like 10 to 15 minutes. Geez.
And for people who don't understand how hard it is to go that hard for 10 or 15
minutes, I mean.
Well, if they weren't in shape and that guy was that.
Would've been death. So he, um,
found jujitsu, he just got his brown belt. He's awesome.
But he started my buddy who made that comment. And then I have started,
they'll do defensive tactic stuff.
I've helped him out twice where I'll just go and I'll be a role player.
And I'll just, you know,
lay there on the ground and put my hands underneath my chest and they have to
try to cuff me. And it's an eye opening experience. I mean,
I've been at this for 18 months. I'll be the first to tell you, I don't know.
I'm at the point now where I'm starting to realize how little I actually know
blue belt now. Correct. Yeah. Um, and it's it,
it's like a foreign language.
Like I can kind of see a little bit of the alphabet,
but don't even think for a second that I'm trying to put together words yet.
Let alone sentences. Yeah. And so I'll go. And you know, I did,
I was the role player for, uh, two of those and it was interesting.
I saw some of the same stuff where you can, I elicit responses for people.
Like I was, I was resisting, but not a crazy amount.
And then the amount of pressure that they started to like apply to me,
grabbing fingers and pulling my fingers back. It, it almost to me,
like I wanted to ramp it up just like anybody else would. So there,
without that skill or without, at tool, in their tool belt,
you, you run outta options. Mm-hmm <affirmative> and it's,
they mean they have a dangerous job, very at it, as it is.